okay folks welcome back
this teachings cannot be specifically
dealing with secrets of swing trading
all right swing trading okay the points
of focus in this module okay I'm going
to teach you how to map buy conditions
and implementing the optimal trade entry
and we teaching you how to map sell
conditions and implement the optimal
trade entry okay folks we're looking at
the Aussie dollar this is a daily chart
and I'm going to be using this currency
pair this works on all currency pairs
all markets all asset classes as well so
before we get into it I think one of the
most repeating questions I get by way of
folks that are follow me on Twitter
Facebook and on YouTube is they need to
know where they feel they need to know
the daily bias you know what should i do
today if I just knew ICT if I just knew
what the bias is gonna be tomorrow I
knew I would be speed profitable in my
demo account I knew I'd see the positive
return in my time and while there's
several things that we can do to arrive
at daily bias in my mentorship I teach
institutional order flow in great detail
but that's not what I'm teaching you
here but I will give you a real quick
approach that it's not going to be as
time-sensitive and by that I mean you
won't catch the turning points with it
okay you're gonna get the meat of the
moves and that's all that you're really
required to find really they do very
well there's other tools and concepts
that we can use to warn ourselves
potential turning points of the
likelihood of a reversal but before we
get into it I just wanted to make
of that because I knew there's a lot of
folks that see my videos and they come
away with the understanding that you
have to have the bias every single day
and you don't you don't need to know
that you just need to know the few times
a month or a couple times a week when
it's really loaded in one direction over
the other and in trade in those
conditions and I think if you do that
your demo account results we'd be much
more encouraging and your time spent
practicing will be a lot more fruitful
so when we look at price action there's
a couple things that I want to kind of
remind you of there are times when the
market moves in trending environments
where it moves directionally then the
market goes into consolidation and then
it trends again well those two
conditions are very easy to see if you
just relax and try not to over
complicate it now there are specific
rules in finding key support resistance
levels and we mentioned a few of those
in the higher time frame concepts video
that you should have watched prior to
this one but I believe that it's easier
for me to teach you how to find the bias
by teaching you how to stay on the side
of higher timeframe momentum okay and
while I am NOT a supporter if you will
of indicators it's gonna seem
sacrilegious for me the foot an
indicator on my chart like you're gonna
see tonight but I think it's a good
crutch
it helps traders find their way if you
will on a directionally I guess trending
environment so the way I use this as I
incorporate two moving averages okay now
I don't require using a moving average
but I think the smoothing effect of the
moving average over price action on a
higher time frame daily chart will help
at least build an understanding of where
you should really quickly just look at
your chart real quick with the moving
averages it'll help you stay on one side
of the marketplace now the benefit of it
is only arrived at by having it on a
daily chart as soon as you start
applying this to like a five minute or
one minute chart the reliability really
goes out the window in my opinion so why
is there any significance of a moving
average or two moving averages placed on
a daily chart well because the daily
chart really is the most widely followed
chart in the banking sector so when
we're looking for an intermediate term
level of momentum it's going to be found
on the daily chart so if we want to be
trading in an immediate term momentum
and it's exactly where the banks are we
looking at that time frame then it goes
without saying that there should be a
high probability of well confluence with
that idea and what we see in price
action so I've taught in the past the 9
and 18 in an 18 and 40 but I'm gonna
give you one that's really simple
and it's the 10 and 20 period okay and
the red line here is going to delineate
the 20 period okay and the green level
here is gone to delineate the 10 level
okay so it's 10 period and a 20-period
moving average okay and I'll let you see
what these settings are so that way you
guys can relax and know what they are
it's exponential moving average 20
period on the close and the other one is
a 10 period exponential on the close
okay so that way you have everything
that's on my chart now now on a daily
chart all we're looking for is
preferably the market leaving a
consolidation I think everyone would
agree that this is a consolidation here
and price has left the consolidation by
breaking a swing high here and also we
have the crossover on the moving average
so right there this is what I want you
to do this is how you map out your
bullish um
in this case it's a bullish condition
and you drag that rectangle all the way
up until a point of which where it
crosses below the 20 so in other words
10 drops down below we can't look for
any buys in here after this point until
we see the daily trade back above with
the 10 period of of the 20 period okay
it's a real simple little momentum
filter okay it's not to hang everything
on it okay but for sake of finding swing
trades I'm gonna incorporate a couple
things here and you'll see how fast and
easy you can get to a bias trading on
one side of the marketplace only and
incorporating some of the things I've
already taught you so we have the bias
shifting to a bullish condition here
with the 10 period going over the 20
period on a daily chart again it's
important that you only do this on the
daily chart try not to do this on your 5
and 15 and 1 minute charts but we have
this condition we can drop down into an
hourly chart now why an hourly chart
hourly chart to me is a real good swing
trading time frame okay so you'll be
able to see everything that's important
from a weekly basis or a daily basis but
to me 60-minute more swing trading ideal
scenario so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go over here in the lower
left-hand corner there's a little tiny I
guess it's a little half triangle you
drag that over to the beginning of your
shaded area that you've deleted where
the 10 crosses over the 20 and we're
leaving okay a consolidation we have a
break and market structure here so we
have potential bullishness and it's
important the 10 period is pointing
higher and the 20 period is pointing
higher and the 10 is opening up and
spreading away from the 20 okay this is
called stacking ok so whenever these two
averages are opening up and pointing up
its stacking when it's bearish like it
is over here when the 10 periods below
the 20 period and it's opening up and
both are pointing down again it's called
stacking that's when the conditions are
optimal ok so we have really strong
momentum here so now if we drop down
into a 60-minute chart it'll take us
immediately down into
in this shaded point here now here's
where it's important that you follow
along with the optimal trade entry once
we're in this shaded area price has to
be above the red line and have moved
away made a swing high after an impulse
like moving higher so they're no works
we have to see price moving higher above
the red line and we're gonna be looking
for awesome trade entries when it
reaches back into a previous swing low
here prices below the red line we cannot
take anything there so we missed this
move here which is fine if we look at
this scenario back here I kind of like
want to bring this retention here if we
look at this move up if we drop our fib
on that I'm going to show you what you
would have had to sit through if you did
something like this okay here's your
swing impulse leg and optimal trade
entries down here you'd have to sit
through all of this before finally the
move takes place okay I don't want you
doing it even though this is a scenario
that worked out pretty good and we've
gotten a symmetrical price swing that's
not the setups I want you to see or at
least hunt what I want you to look for
is when price is above the red 20 period
and it makes an impulse leg and it comes
back down to an optimal trade entry too
long okay we don't have it here I'm
gonna spare you putting the FIB line
because this doesn't get down to it and
price is gone below the red line or
below the red line here okay and all
through he
we're filtering we can't take anything
here and finally watch what happens we
start seeing impulse swings and price
moves away from the red line comes back
to it but now watch it happens see we
have the price dip below the 20 but the
10 has not crossed over so this can
happen on the one-hour chart
do not do this when it doesn't on the
daily chart price has to be above both
the 20 and 10 but on the 1 our price can
stab below the red line
during the retracement only violet when
the 10 period has not crossed over the
red though so as soon as this occurs and
then the 10 period trades below or marks
below the 20-period moving average if we
got that cross over we can't take too
long ok so we'll have the Fibonacci here
you're probably thinking oh well this
has been several days now Michael did
you know this isn't giving me a treat
every single day right this is just that
one pair so we have a nun post leg here
comes back down into optimal trade entry
perfect delivery and we have symmetrical
price swing here ok really nice little
swing trade here and it started on the
26 and is on to 27th so basically one
day of a hold for a nice little swing
trade putting the trade on here at the
round 75 70 and getting out at
approximately 76 10 so not a bad little
move you can leave a small portion one
as it is a swing trade and leave your
stop down here ok do not trail your
stop-loss you want to be taking partials
ok and then once we get a run away from
a consolidation like we have here price
has to show a willingness to want to run
me remember inside this green shaded
area we are bullish on the daily so
we're anticipating this type of a move
here we want to see it you're starting
to run higher so when consolidations
occur if we take that trade we want to
leave our stop loss in until we start
leaving the consolidation ok and then we
can start trailing it up behind
to swing lows from market action and
I'll explain that in a second but taking
a portion off here and then letting the
remainder go you can see how we have
really nice extensions up here at to
500% and then price drops down in here
so we can't take a new set up here but
we can hold on to the one we did in here
price starts to run and now we have
another one right in here we have a
potential swing up and down and I'll
show you that one right here right there
it's just the highest body closed or
open trades back down into it not over
shoots it a little bit okay because we
are on a one-hour chart and I'm not
using the wick but your stop-loss would
be below here it came close but
ultimately it spreads that gives us
symmetrical price swing price drops down
below the red line we can't take
anything in here no long trades in here
got to stay trimmer inside this green
shaded area we're looking for Long's so
wild prices below the red line we can't
take anything along we had to wait until
price gets back above the red line as it
does here but then price goes below the
red line and so does the 10 period so we
can't take this scenario at the wait
price trades higher disc back down not
deep enough for optimal trade entry in
here so nothing would have happened
there price here gives us a nice little
so now I gotta get this in how early
chart so there's a little bit more pips
in this if you look at a 15 minute time
frame or a 5 minute time frame so here
we have our impulse leg retraces optimal
trade entry symmetrical price swing
leave a little portion on why because we
are inside the green shaded area and
we're anticipating that daily chart to
expand on the up side so this is an area
where we could have taken another long
or we could have added more from our
original position
okay and we can't use this one even
though we have equal highs let you know
about this would be a run on that week
if we could do a fib from this level
here up to this Bobby
you'll see it is actually a perfect
optimal trade entry but the filtering
process we can't take it
so nothing there nothing there
price trades below the red line can't
trade there can't trade there and price
meanders sideways in here we get above
it but doesn't give us anything to trade
there and we're still below the red line
can't take any trades there long or
below the red line we're still filtering
nothing this is something you can go
through all the majors with okay or if
you'd like to trade exotics which I
don't like to do that in the States
I don't get to tax treatment for
anything that's not coupled with a
dollar so you guys can look for every
tool every pair out there twenty-eight
pairs you can go through this and find a
scenario where a swing trade will be
forming with this insight and again
we're inside the green shaded area so
there's nothing we can do in terms of a
buy while prices below the red line and
we miss all that okay now we go back out
to a daily timeframe so we had a couple
in there for swing trades not in every
day trade okay and this whole movement
here was about about a month in two
weeks or so so we had a couple swing
trade now swing trades are about that
length they're not every day trades you
want to put them one and hold on for
them for a while now we're look at when
we look for mapping out a bearish
condition okay and we're gonna look for
the crossover here and we're gonna drag
that down until we get across over on
the upside and I'm going to change this
to red so that way everything inside
this red shaded area we will keep our
focus on only looking for optimal trade
entry cells when prices move that's a
little too much nails in it
let's do this let's go - yeah that's a
little bit friendlier on the eye all
right and again we're in consolidation
so we want to see price breakdown
on the moving average yes and show
willingness to want to leave the
consolidation that happens here comes
back up retest the consolidation and now
we can start to look for optimal trade
entries right in here so we're going to
take this little toggle thing here put
it and I'll start here so you guys can
see the contrast but really when we get
about the 11th of October that's when it
would be an ideal scenario because every
time you leave a consolidation you want
to wait for it to potentially retrace
back to it much like we saw it here it
left the consolidating back down
potentially retesting the point which it
left and then we can start seeing it
really start to tear up higher so we're
going to drop down to an hourly chart
now and we can start looking for price
staying below the red line and giving
optimal trade entry cells okay now
notice we can spike through it that's
like we just said before when the buys
but if we go through it the 10 period
has to remain below it - cannot cross
over so we have an optimal trade entry
cell here and again this is not an
everyday setup your swings so we have
Athol trade entry here body the body
cell tends below 220 you're both
stacking this is a sell at optimal trade
entry and target 2 is hit beautifully
you can leave a little portion on with a
stop up here but swing trading you do
not want to aggressively trail your stop
you want to be taking partials and
looking to add new positions when you
can here's another scenario okay no
can't do it we're above the red line
or about the red line in here can't do
that
now we're above it for a long period of
time so we can't do anything that we get
back below it does it here price stays
below it we climb back above it again
we're in a Cell scenario so we have to
wait for price to get below both the red
line and see the 10 and 20 period
exponential stacking lower and we have
something in here let's take a look at
that we have a swing high here see that
I have an indecisive candle here and a
bullish up close camera on the lower
closed candle here the highest portion
is the body on this one we're going to
drag it down to this lowest body here
trade out the optimal trade entry and we
get target one fall short of target two
that does give us an awesome tray - you
just sell there and the next ideal one
is here we have price below both moving
averages they're stacking here it does
punch up through it but we don't get the
tent ready to cross over and we have to
put that down right on the lowest body
portion here comes up Nick's the to 62%
tradesman level there's a cell we could
look for target one target two
symmetrical to our extension eventually
here's another one in here
or price trades back up to here but we
cross over so we probably not going to
take that one you have to hold on to the
original one we had up here and another
one now we don't get up high enough to
get into that one yeah it didn't retrace
deep enough there so we would still be
holding some portion on that we entered
back there and we don't have anything
here
back above the red line starts
consolidating and then we have price
really not doing too much so I'll take
that Avinash you know so it's clear to
see what's going on and price starts to
move back in our favor here again we're
waiting for these scenarios this is what
you look for you wait for these types of
setups here so we have both the averages
moving lower even though we spike
through the red line the ten period has
not crossed over to the twenty looking
for inside this red shaded area again
we're anticipating a daily chart to
expands going lower so we put our short
on here stop will be above the high here
and we can see target one target two
symmetrical price swing beautifully hit
eventually later on we get to our
extension hit we have another scenario
now even though we spiked through the
tenth area has not crossed over the
twenty period so everything is still
valid here else we'll trade entries sell
target one hit target to hit eventually
symmetrical price swing as hit as well
and we can hold on to a portion now we
have a consolidation when price leaves
the consolidation then and only then do
we consider looking to lower our
protective stop-loss and I'll just bring
that over here a little bit and we don't
go anything more towards an auto trade
entry until we start seeing price back
above the red line and now we're
consolidating again I think we're
probably going to run in a cell
condition before long yeah we have
another one in here here's a nice one
have a nice swing high here price trades
down right to here
awesome trade entry
sell and we can see symmetrical price
swing boom really nice little swing
trade their price trades above the red
line so we were on the sidelines until
we get back in sync again right in here
another scenario so what this does is
actually gives us a context to work
within and then we use this body here
and we're going to drag it down to the
lowest open or close which is right
there I'll still trade actually right
there sell beautiful expense expansion
down to set metrical pricing and 200
extension and doesn't give us much more
below that before we started going
consolidating and back above the red
line so we're neutral and then
everything has reversed until recent
current price action now so you can see
it gives you a context to work within
now it's not perfect nothing's guide
we're going to be perfect but it gives
you a quick down and dirty way to apply
to simple moving averages of twenty and
ten period exponential moving average on
a daily and on an hourly chart and it
frames your context of what side of the
marketplace should you be waiting to
only trade on now go back through here
and you'll see obviously there's a few
times where if we are in this
environment where we're in the red
shaded area the ideal scenario would be
to be looking for selling short but
right away you can look for like this
here this scenario this is a buy here
and that runs up what would this be if
it's not a swing trade what could this
potentially be I'll just throw this in
here as a bonus this could be a day
trade okay you could be a day trader
here because it's counter what you're
waiting for for a swing trade going
short if you see these scenarios well
you can take a long why because you have
equal highs here
okay what's what's the high on this
candle seventy eight thirty so what's
twenty cuts above that 7850 okay so we
could look for an area to go up to there
okay so
we could be a buyer here and take our
profits here okay or we can look over
here and take a portion of it off here
and leave a small portion alone to see
if we can get it run about 10 20 50 baht
as a day traders mindset okay that type
of thing so we can do things both
directions even though we have a sell
model okay or sell program they'll be
working inside of with this red shaded
area relative to the daily chart okay
doesn't negate you not being able to do
anything it just means it for a swing
trade you have to wait for price to give
you scenarios as we outlined for
bearishness like here
okay optimal trade entry so and then
leaving portions on a lot longer than
you would with day trades so in other
words for a swing trade you can take off
like 50% leave the remaining 50% on
whereas a day trade if it goes to your
first objective you want to think about
75 to 80% off and leave a small portion
on because it's a day trade so I think
this is going to pretty much to do this
video here and watch it a couple times
you'll see it's not complicated it's not
you know acrobatics it's very simple
approach to using a retail tool a moving
average but underneath is tell you
moving averages are actually used on
large funds and they're trend-following
in nature so the reason why I'm telling
you how to use it like this because this
is very close to one of the long-term
trending models that a large fun uses
that I know of okay folks hopefully you
enjoyed this presentation if you'd like
to find more you can visit my website at
the inner circle trader.com